README.md, before:

<!-- [![Melpa Status](http://melpa.org/packages/flycheck-guile-badge.svg)](http://melpa.org/#/flycheck-guile) -->

flycheck-guile
===============

This library provides a [flycheck][] checker for the [GNU Guile][guile]
programming language.  It requires a working [Geiser][geiser] configuration, and
runs `guild compile` on your code to collect warnings and errors.

Installation
------------

This package is not yet available on [MELPA][melpa] or [Guix][guix].

To install it manually, download this code, add the directory to your Emacs
`load-path`, and `(require 'flycheck-guile)` somewhere in your Emacs
configuration.

Usage
-----

The checker will automatically activate in `scheme-mode` buffers with
`geiser-mode`, where `guile` is the current scheme implementation.

Troubleshooting
---------------

If it seems like the checker is not working, try running `M-x
flycheck-verify-checker guile` for some diagnostics.

If the checker is working, but can't find your guile modules (ie. reporting "no
code for module" errors), make sure that you have correctly configured
`geiser-guile-load-path` for your project.  The checker uses this variable to
determine the load paths passed to `guild compile`.

A simple way to configure load paths is to add a `.dir-locals.el` file to the
root directory of the project:

``` emacs-lisp
((nil
  (eval . (with-eval-after-load 'geiser-guile
            (let ((root-dir
                   (file-name-directory
                    (locate-dominating-file default-directory ".dir-locals.el"))))
              (unless (member root-dir geiser-guile-load-path)
                (setq-local geiser-guile-load-path
                            (cons root-dir geiser-guile-load-path))))))))
```

This will look for the Guile module `(foo bar baz)` in `foo/bar/baz.scm`
relative to the root directory of the project.

License
-------

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later
version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

See [COPYING](COPYING) for details.

Credits
-------

`flycheck-guile` was originally written by Ricardo Wurmus as part of [Guile
Studio][guile-studio].

[flycheck]: https://github.com/flycheck/flycheck
[geiser]: https://www.nongnu.org/geiser/
[guile]: https://www.gnu.org/software/guile/guile.html
[guile-studio]: https://git.elephly.net/software/guile-studio.git
[guix]: https://guix.gnu.org/
[melpa]: http://melpa.org

Commit message:

Update README with MELPA details

README.md, after:

[![Melpa Status](http://melpa.org/packages/flycheck-guile-badge.svg)](http://melpa.org/#/flycheck-guile)
[![Melpa Stable Status](http://stable.melpa.org/packages/flycheck-guile-badge.svg)](http://stable.melpa.org/#/flycheck-guile)

# flycheck-guile

This library provides a [flycheck][] checker for the [GNU Guile][guile]
programming language.  It requires a working [Geiser][geiser] configuration, and
runs `guild compile` on your code to collect warnings and errors.

## Installation

### MELPA

This package is available on [MELPA][melpa].

After following MELPA's [Getting Started][melpa-getting-started] guide, you can
install this package with `M-x package-install flycheck-guile`.

### Guix

This package is not yet available from [Guix][guix].

An "unofficial" recipe is available [here][guix-package] in the interim.

### Manual installation

To install it manually, download this code, add the directory to your Emacs
`load-path`, and `(require 'flycheck-guile)` somewhere in your Emacs
configuration.

## Usage

The checker will automatically activate in `scheme-mode` buffers with
`geiser-mode`, where `guile` is the current scheme implementation.

## Troubleshooting

If it seems like the checker is not working, try running `M-x
flycheck-verify-checker guile` for some diagnostics.

If the checker is working, but can't find your guile modules (ie. reporting "no
code for module" errors), make sure that you have correctly configured
`geiser-guile-load-path` for your project.  The checker uses this variable to
determine the load paths passed to `guild compile`.

A simple way to configure load paths is to add a `.dir-locals.el` file to the
root directory of the project:

``` emacs-lisp
((nil
  (eval . (with-eval-after-load 'geiser-guile
            (let ((root-dir
                   (file-name-directory
                    (locate-dominating-file default-directory ".dir-locals.el"))))
              (unless (member root-dir geiser-guile-load-path)
                (setq-local geiser-guile-load-path
                            (cons root-dir geiser-guile-load-path))))))))
```

This will look for the Guile module `(foo bar baz)` in `foo/bar/baz.scm`
relative to the root directory of the project.

## License

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later
version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

See [COPYING](COPYING) for details.

## Credits

`flycheck-guile` was originally written by Ricardo Wurmus as part of [Guile
Studio][guile-studio].

[flycheck]: https://github.com/flycheck/flycheck
[geiser]: https://www.nongnu.org/geiser/
[guile]: https://www.gnu.org/software/guile/guile.html
[guile-studio]: https://git.elephly.net/software/guile-studio.git
[guix]: https://guix.gnu.org/
[guix-package]: https://github.com/flatwhatson/guix-channel/blob/master/flat/packages/emacs-xyz.scm
[melpa]: http://melpa.org/
[melpa-getting-started]: https://melpa.org/#/getting-started
